Initial Research & Interview Questions 


Option 2: Hidden Impacts of/on Design: With this option, students will identify a working designer in any field and conduct research about their practice with the goal of examining how the designer’s work impacts people, environments, or situations beyond what they initially design for? What role does religion play in the lives of Korean fast fashion families  in the United States? How does an architect’s design choices for a  low income housing project affect a neighborhood?


Designer: Aurora James(brief)


Toronto-native and New York City-transplant, Aurora James is the Creative Director and Founder of luxury accessories brand Brother Vellies. Founded in 2013 with the goal of keeping traditional African design practices and techniques alive, while also creating and sustaining artisanal jobs, Brother Vellies is now handmade across the globe. Prior to founding Brother Vellies, James amassed an impressive resume of industry experience. Her background in fashion, journalism, art, photography, and horticulture joins a forever-passion for artisanship, design, and humanitarianism to create truly one-of-a-kind pieces you will have in your wardrobe forever.
Brother Vellies is worn regularly by dedicated followers including Beyonce, Meghan Markle, Zendaya, Rihanna, Serena Williams, Lady Gaga, Katy Perry, Chrissy Teigen and Solange.


In June 2020, Aurora founded The Fifteen Percent Pledge, an initiative that urges retail giants to commit 15% of their shelf space to Black-owned businesses by creating clear business strategies and attainable goals. The Fifteen Percent Pledge has since been featured on Forbes, Fast Company, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, CNN, and Vogue. Within the first year, over 2 dozen major corporations dedicated to The Fifteen Percent Pledge, effectively diverting over $5B in capital to Black entrepreneurs in the United States.
https://aurorajames.com/ 


Being a designer means seeing beyond just the actual object and its function to the people, places interactions it impacts. Aurora James does just that with her practice, using craft-based luxury and retail reform to highlight the hidden impacts of design choices on craft ecologies, supply chains, capital access, and representation in fashion retail. Through Brother Vellies, she builds small-batch, craft-centered products that sustain artisan livelihoods and material ethics – the polar opposite of the fast-fashion practices that have become so commercialised now. 


Furthermore, her non -profit the ‘Fifteen Percent Pledge’ helps shift the power structures by pushing to actively re-route value (craft knowledge, jobs, shelf space, capital) to communities typically excluded by fashion and big retail (i.e. Black owned businesses)




Interview Questions: Ibada Wadud (Prof at Parsons School of Design)


What was your role/ experience during your time at Ralph Lauren?


Was there ever a time where you knew your team could create a more tangible impact but say ‘corporate’ wasn't a fan of it?


How do you take your experience and then reflect into your students, why do you think its important to do this?


How do you handle trade-offs among cost, speed, and ethics when they collide?


How do you document and compensate for craft knowledge that your designs rely on?


Which part of the supply chain is most fragile, and what have you redesigned—if anything—to make it more resilient?
Do you think there is a current push within the industry to push designs past their original intent to have a more tangible impact?
Are there any unexpected ways your designs or initiatives have influenced people’s lives  whether artisans, consumers, or even corporate leaders?
How do you navigate the balance between creative innovation and maintaining accountability to the marginalized communities your designs aim to empower?
2. How do you measure success for your initiatives? For example, 15 Percent Pledge, when the social and economic effects can take years to fully manifest?
3. Has working with artisans and small-scale producers changed your perception of what  ethical or sustainable design means, and what it means to you?
4.  How do you envision design serving as a tool for deeper systemic change beyond fashion and retail?