Very cool. So I wanted to talk to you today about the designer Aurora James, if you know her. Yeah. 


And so in my intro to design studies class, we're talking about a designer. And so we chose her and essentially her tangible impact. And so I wanted, I thought you would be a great person to interview because I know you worked in the equity division right for Ralph Lauren.


 And so I thought, you know, you have some experience, especially with her, if you know anything about the designer anything like that, Yeah, well, so I work with a team called Design with Intent. I am a consultant for them relating to community and culture. And that's still ongoing. 


So you have a very good memory. And then I also am familiar with Aurora James work, especially her early work. I followed her from probably around 2013 when she had not even really started her brand, although I would say she was engaging in the work that helped her to start her brand. 


Yeah. And it was, she really inspired me. She inspired a lot of the work that I was doing. And actually, sort of on a very similar timeline of working with artisans as that came to the forefront of fashion, as an industry and sort of ap business model for women's empowerment and social impact and economic impact. Wana, I was at Cade Spade in 2016 or 17, I invited her to meet with our team.. And she was very gracious and it was a wonderful meeting.


 And I followed her work since and had the opportunity to take students from Parsons to Fashion Week where they've met her by, you know, by chance and she's always been someone who I think a lot of students, as well as myself, really looks to as a pioneer in the industry not having like, simultaneously a successful accessories brand. and also with, you know, social impact model, but really like selling the brand, I think, at more so than the story. Or like the, I would say the mission, the story is definitely part of the brand, but I think the mission, you kind of like, maybe we'll explore because of your love with the brand, your love for the brand, and then we'll, that's kind of like the cherry on top. Yeah.


So I really like that approach. I think as designers who maybe want to be taken seriously and or maybe that's just like my way of saying it. But I maybe you take more seriously.


I designer who leads with design. Right. And so to me, she's a great example.


 So I'm happy for you to ask me any more questions. Yeah. So with James's work, what I know there are a lot of other designers who are doing very similar projects or things to her extent, but what do you think makes her really stand out compared to all the others who are doing similar things?


 Well, I think she made a good decisions early on, you know, and so she's had a path and a trajectory in the industry that was informed by smart decisions that she made, I would say. And she, you know, sought out ment mentorship and I actually remember learning about more about her work or maybe I think I first heard her on a podcast, which was the Man Repeller podcast. And I know that was a lot.


I'm like, I'm really telling you how how long I followed her because that I love that. I love her because yeah. But when I did, I then looked more into her work and found that she was on a reality show on Amazon. Oh, my gosh. assigned a mentor. And these were't like her early days before any kind of Vogue fashion award. Oh, my gosh. But she made really smart choices, right? And so I don't know that, like, I can't speak to whether the reality TV part was a part of her strategy. Right. Right. 


But it definitely gave her a platform, regardless. And I recalled that her mentor on that show was the creative director at Kate Spade. And so that is why I ended up reaching out from social impact and sustainability team. So anyways, I think that has made her as successful as she is, just the strategic decision making. The real like passion and commitment to her brand and understanding who she is as a brand, as a designer.


And I think like giving her audience a window of inside into who she is while carrying a brand that is, I would say, that transcends just her personal identity, right. And so, I think that's been something also that has really, you know, she does truly have a perspective, and I think that's why she's respected as a designer. She's bringing something to the table. 


I think that alongside all of the, you know, great decisions, she made, when she had the opportunity in the industry, kind of led her to this moment and her commitment to to political, like politics and um, and I would say social justice has also been something that she's known to known for as a personal, on a personal brand level. Right in terms of who she is, what her values are, has also gotten her a lot of attention and I think one of those iconic moments was at the Met Gala and maybe I don't really remember the years, probably maybe four years ago or so. where she addressed Alexandria Castio Cortez and that was a big moment with her message, you know, the rich and all of that. So I think she's just very much who she is she, therefore has, you know, gained a really like loyal following. 


Absolutely. I think she, like you were saying, very much true to who she is in all of her work reflects that, especially we were very much into the whole 15% pledge. We thought that was extremely important going to brands like Sephora, Macy's's major retailers, and not only is like 15% of their profit necessarily going, but 15% of like, you know, visibility, their shelf space, things like thinking about that approach was very interesting to hear her perspectives.


And I know you said that you were very influenced by a lot of her work, so was there any things that you learned from her that you kind of adopted into your work?


 That's a really good question. I mean, probably.
I don't know what that would be, but I think, um I definitely was inspired by her more of an influenced by her, I think, what was really remarkable to me was and therefore inspiring was that I was doing something really similar at the same time in a different region of the world and there was so little community around that type of business model and that type of work. Right. So she reached out to someone who was already starting to have success, who was willing to share space and wisdom.


I thought was, you know, like just very, very respect respectable, very respectful, and just kind of showed like the authenticity of who she is. But I think more so, I've been inspired by her than like my work has been influenced by her. And so if anything, I would say striving to elevate my designs and elevate the work that I was doing, right? 


Like any products making with artisans, I really felt validated in seeing that she also had leveled that up away from, like, craft, not that there's anything wrong with craft, but I'm just talking about that from like a design perspective. Right to a more sort of conceptual and uniform process. Absolutely.


With sustainability in mind and all of those things, but I think just really kind of taking it to another level. And so that definitely was something that I would say then influenced me. Yeah. And and yeah, so those, I think, both of those are true, probably. Absolutely. So when, when in your work leading with sustainability and equity, was there ever a time when you were working on a project where maybe you wanted to be, you felt you could do more, but say the stakeholders or something like that weren't too happy with it.


 Yeah, I think.. that happens, and I think, like, what I've noticed is the difference, is, like, um It's less about, like, your personal vision than it is about what is good for the brand and if you're passionate about the brand, then I think it's a lot harder to feel frustrated in moments where like maybe something that you personally envision is not great for the brand or doesn't align necessarily So for me, I love the part of the process of offering strategic and creative advice to brands through like this lens of sustainability and community impact is that I get to step into a new world of their brand and learn about their values. There's always an overlap because I bring my values to clients who share values in some way, but maybe they represent them differently, creatively or from a communications perspective. And that's really what distinguishes one brand from another. 


And so to each of those worlds. and experiencing that and advocating for those stories to be told is what I really love about my work. in and that is as gratifying to me as, you know, working on my own product development or my brand. Yeah. Absolutely. So with that being said, do you think there is a current push within, like, the industry to push designs past their original intent to now have a more tangible impact? I think there's an appetite for real stories and I think, understanding, like, also that there's a consciousness, a collective consciousness about how clothing are made that has really, I think, probably exponentially grown in the last decade with social media, particularly, but I would say all media. I don't I can't quote any particular statistic, but I'm just in educated guest. 


And so, I think with that said, like, there's a level of transparency that is just required because your customer knows so much about manufacturing, for example, in production in ways that probably converted in the past. And so Yeah, I think there's definitely a push to be able. And I think, and this is maybe just more so my opinion on how to go about doing that and what works is like the ability to identify that within your existing corporate strategy and as a brand within your identity versus trying to emulate with someone else is doing because you're just trying to emulate their business model, but maybe you don't have the structures in place to emulate that. 


And so it's going to be a lot harder if you don't have factors all over the globe. And so you can't replicate maybe what a global brand would be able to do, right? Or you may not have the talent dispersed in a way that would be able to manage that. And so you cannot do what another brand might do, which is why I think it's so important for brands and businesses to really investigate that in an authentic way and to do that like across teams and to understand what that narrative is and what their North Star is in terms of telling a social impact story or telling a story about, you know, a particular community or anything of that nature. So yeah, I think there's definitely higher standards and rightly so because the consequences have been so severe. Yeah, I mean, we've definitely seen more of a push of even like bigger house fashion companies working with nure designers because, you know, they want to give them their flowers, that recognition and that's very important thing and we should be doing more of stuff like that. 


So when working and things like, you know, working with smaller designers or, you know, less exposed ideas, how do you guys navigate the balance between creative innovation and then maintaining accountability to the marginalized communities? Your designs are trying to improve or empower. Oh, I think you're on mute.


 Oh, yeah, it was on me. No, you' good. Can you receive that one more time? I'm sorry. Yeah, no, you're all good. So how do you navigate the balance between creative innovation and maintaining accountability to marginalized communities, your designs aim to empower. Yeah, that's a really good question. I would say I tried to influence strategy around that. I've done it for myself, but I'll just speak more into currently what I'm doing, which is less focus on my own brand and more supporting brands that can have tremendous impact if they make good decisions. And so I would say what influences around that is the arriving some of the creative inspiration from those stories so that there's fluidity and consistency across both of those things, both the creative and the impact. And I think once you understand what that impact story is, what need is being met by telling that story, then you can more authentically derive a concept from there that feels like there's a real origin story, you know?. And I think that looks different for every brand, but that's how I would describe it.. Which is not that specific. I apologize.. I'sceptually kind of how I approach the strategy behind something like that. Absolutely. Does that make sense? No, yeah, absolutely. As opposed to saying like, oh, aesthetically, this is very attractive to me so now we're going to like work backwards from there. Yeah. Vers more so building off of what you were trying to help and then go, got it. So obviously you do your own side things and helping out other companies and things, but you're also a professor. So why did you feel like it's important to you to teach, you know, students about things like this? Great question. Well, I've always been drawn to education. I was a student teacher in college after work when I went to graduate school. I went to graduate school in Spain, and I was a teaching fellow in Spain for four years. And so teaching was always something that I was attracted to, even before I dove into design, I was focused more on global studies and sustainability. And I was learning so much through those experiences that I felt like, wow, there's like a completely interesting and engaging way to learn by doing and to learn from people who have had, you know, really rich experiences. And I think a lot of that was influenced by having really great professors who had real life experiences to share. And Once I really noticed like also the impact once I was in the industry working and focused on like environmental and social governance as well as storytelling, you know, I realized that there was an opportunity to build around the discipline of sustainability as it was growing as an industry and to influence how that was taught, what was considered, how it was defined even, which I know in our class, we explored a lot. many ways to define sustainability. I think that ultimately is what really drove me continues to drive me. And just sort of like, yeah, allowing that body of work to expand and shift into different iterations of what ultimately it has become. It's really gratifying to be a part of community in that way. that, you know, alongside scholars and authors and scientists and designers, you know, it's just so transdisciplinary as a practice that I really just think that the educational component was always just something kind of. Yeah, that I kept going back to, I would say. Yeah. I kind of, I didn't really like come out of nowhere or suddenly was brought up to me as an opportunity. It was more so like a buildup of being involved in education from a very early period in my life. So I'm teaching summer classes. I started teaching social impact at a program that was held at Yale in the summer that was called Leaders for Social Change. That was before, there was really language for things like social entrepreneurship. There were a ton of programs at universities that were focused on social enterprise or sustainability or sustainable design. I was just starting a sustainable design MS's at Minneapolis College of Art and Design And so the scholarship was really just budding, essentially. Yeah, so a lot of it was timing. Makes sense. That's so nice, though. Was there ever, I guess, times during being a professor where like, I guess students maybe influence your work or inspired something with your work and you're like, oh, you know what, maybe you're on to something. Absolutely. Yeah, it's been just really interesting for students that I've worked with across all of my classes and programs, which are both undergraduate and graduate programs. But I think ultimately, like what I'm always impressed by are students' ability to develop their like their identity as a designer through the courses that as the course evolves and as I teach and as they engage. So just like having really, maybe, for example, design of business, right, like not really thinking on a systems design level potentially beforehand. And then walking away with this news sort of like lens through which you may see the world. Yeah, absolutely. That's I'm always impressed by and I can always tell when there's been a shift for students and it has influenced their work just through like their curiosities or the way that their work develops. So yeah, that's that's definitely influence how I teach as well. And and then also students just coming from so many backgrounds, I feel like Parsons is so diverse. And so like students just bringing individual real experiences to the classroom has taught me a lot about what the future of the design industry looks like and it's really, I think, affirming to see so many, so much diversity within the pool of tomorrow's design leaders. That is like very inspiring to me. And I think that that's why I feel so passionately about teaching because I feel like we have this opportunity to open students' eyes to the possibilities in the future while also giving them this unique opportunity to see what some of the consequences of, you know, not being sustainable and being extractive really have caused us. And so knowing that those same students will influence brands or start their own brands or influence marketing somewhere, right? Whatever the case may be, is, yeah, very motivating. Absolutely. So has now going back to, I guess, you're not professor, but more personal work, has working with artisans in small scale producers change your perception of what? ethical or sustainable design means and what it means to you? Yeah, I think it has in many ways, I think it's not just a business model. It's about. who is being heard, who's being seen, who has visibility, who's able to speak for themselves, who has agency, essentially, and who doesn't. And so that's been something that I think has really defined the ethics of of the strategies that I take forward in my work as well, which is definitely evolved. I think early on, I just absorbed because, you know, it was part of the learning experience, absorbed of a lot of what I was taught and what was defined as sustainable, realizing that in the field and which is why I said, like, many of those global experiences when I was setting human rights and all of those things really influenced my work because I was in the field at markets and I would see artisans and I would see their quality of life and I would engage with them through nonprofit work. And I understood that there was like a lack of form of formal structures within the industry that supported, you know, artisan collectives and individual artisans. And so I think, it's not just about like, can we formalize this into some kind of like, um business model that will support the community economically? It's, why wouldn't there, like, why is there ever not an opportunity for that person at same person to have a voice and to be able to tell their story? And I think that is really where there's opportunities for growth in the industry as well. And that doesn't necessarily mean like there's a difference between their image being exploited and them having a platform to share with the world who they are. And so I think that also influences how we learn as spirits and as teachers. Like, if we continue to see models in the industry, that then are sort of, I think, they permeate through classrooms as examples and quettis and knowledge. We see a very biased, you know, approach to that type of work, but in reality, there's so many ways to go about that that I think are ethical and, I think a huge part of that is the designer's journey, like why they're there, why they're asking questions. And that's really a personal journey. But I would say, that, yes, the ethics have definitely developed and shifted for me, which I think is important. I think it's progress. Right. The more collectively is a society and how many ways, you know, harmful models are adopted we should be course correcting along the way and doing as much as we can to repair any harm that's done. So I really, I'm excited to see brands going more in the direction that I described of forming real relationships and, yeah. I mean, yeah, I guess my next fall-up question was going to be, why do you, like, why do you think it is so important or necessary for them to do these things to give, you know, recognition to certain communities? You know, that kind of connects. It's a really good question, that kind of connects with whatever was just bringing up a little bit of like, how things become institution and institutionalized as knowledge, which we call in academia epistemologyology. And, you know, the study of knowledge and heard that, per that definition, a lot of that relates to whatever we document as something that is a standard within our education systems. And I think the more we document and the more that we are inclusive of who we document, the more that we can see that there are other ways of being, other ways of knowing, as important as it may be to look at fashion history, for example, and say, like, oh, this person documented this by making a pattern, like, there's other ways of ascribing value to things that are not patterns, right? So like that's one, one way of assessing, like, how something becomes valued as knowledge in our education. And I think there's so many things like that, like stories that haven't been told communities that have not been included in the discourse of categories that we know are very influential. Absolutely. a lot of that is just systemic structures that were in place. A lot of that is systemic discrimination, a lot of that is misogyny. But I think largely a lot of stories of women and people of color are left out of history. And so I think like highlighting who those people are is always part of how fashion education will evolve. And then also, I think it's then a lot clearer, I think when we kind of, it's kind of like your glasses are foggy and then suddenly you get to like wipe them and clearly. And so I think that's just like such an illuminating experience. And I, you know, I believe strongly in like advocating for that. And there's not always spaces to do that. I don't take that for granted. So, you know, of course, persons being a champion of that is really going to help the, I think all fashion education to all. Absolutely. I think it's very important. I took last semester H history of Design, and it was like my favorite class I ever took at Parsons. And you're right, it's absolutely insane to see how much of, you know, our culture's history have been just erased or adopted as a Western image rather than actually where it came from, which is, you know, than a racing so many people's stories and cultures and lineage and everything that's going on. And so I think that's why I group found it really important to focus on Aurora James and her work because again, like the things like the 15% and doing the tax the rich dress at the met, these are such huge moments that we really can't ignore and we're not allowed to ignore. You know what I mean? It's very interface. And I think I think for a lot of people of color, we have to be so bold and take these steps and really kind of put our, like our put ourselves in these areas like to be criticized or, you know, tore apart or whatever the case is just in order for people to understand of what we're trying to do and bring these stories back to us.. I think you're on mute. Once again, Sorry. All good. A, yeah, no, you make such a good point. And I think that I also Aurora is someone and I can't speak to this like as something that I definitively know, but I mean, she gives me the energy and the impression that like she's someone who's also aware of any privileges that she may have. Right. So, like, I think that also is why a lot of people respect her, especially the work that she does for a 15% pledge.. And so, yeah, I really just wanted to add that as well because I think that's often like left out, maybe out of like niceties or politeness, but I think it's such an important conversation also as a black designer, that's something that's so real that and I know those are conversations she't shy away from, of like colorism and things like that. And so I think she's done an amazing job of like continuing to be herself, understanding she's not everything to everybody. And so like her somewhat prely asesthetic that also is like this mix with this like beautiful surrealism and like all of these beautiful influences are very much aurora James and people who are attracted to that, are invited to be a part of that. And I think because she's so real about that, she gets a lot of support. Yeah. And so I just, you know, wanted to cave out that by saying like, yeah, she's a very particular, aesthetic and a very particular representing a very particular, I would say, like subculture of people, but that that's who she is. Absolutely. And I think you touched on the polarism part. A lot of, I think a lot of people, especially like white people, they don't understand the, I guess, tears to the internal racism or racism in general and something like that is so important and something that, you know, we all see and we feel and recognize. But again, it's not talked about as well. Like, I talk about it, you know, I talk about a lot with my friends because the thing with North, I'm North and South Indian, but there's a big divide between North and South India because in the north, people are deemed as more gorgeous because they have the lighter features versus south. They have the darker features. And so even even though we're all Indian, we talk about this stuff and it's like, it's inherently within all of us and we have to recognize, you know, even if you are Indian, you could have very fair skin and blue eyes and you're getting into doors that other people can't. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah, absolutely. I think that's such a wonderful example because it's one of the most prominent examples in terms of cultures.. And so, yeah, I just, you know, I felt like compelled to touch on that because I'm happy you can appreciate it. But yeah, I mean, those are my thoughts. Thank you so much. Absolutely. That's the only questions I had